From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
one 60 recorded live Thursday,
April 30th, 2009. Support for Hanselman it's
just provided by Tellerik Arrieta
controls. The most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerikdotcomandby.net
developers journal the world's leading.net
developer magazine online at www
dot  dot com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
son engineer, Joshua Maher notch.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes and I'm
in the lion's den down
here in Eugene, Oregon, and
a Scott Bell where my friend
hooked me up with Josh
marinacci, who is a staff
engineer on Java effects. That's
what I mean by the
lion's den a, a sun
employee and a Microsoft employee
had lunch. I had the
hummus, he had a hamburger
and the world did not
end in fact it was
delicious. It was lovely. It
was pretty cool actually. And
there were actually a drum
circle broke out, which was
just beautiful here in Eugene
rare sunny day in Oregon.
Yeah, the Berkeley of the
Northwest. So yeah. So you
work on Java effects. Now
I worked in Java 10
years ago at no 10
years ago, 1998, 99, somewhere
around there at Nike. And
I remember doing, I guess
it was called a WT,
the abstract windowing toolkit. Yep.
It's kind of all coming
back. You've been in Java
for 15 years. Yeah, pretty
much since the early betas
first public made us 95.
And I, I think I
went Microsoft kind of after
that the EWT was really
early on. So this was
like Netscape four days. And
at that point, I think
Java was really the only
plugin of any significance that
you would have in your
browser. So then fast forward,
10 years later, what does
Java FX and how does
it, how does it relate
to Java? So Java facts
is, Hey, I'll start with
the official marketing ease. Nobody
wants that, but okay. Make
it quick. It's a platform
for RAs, rich internet applications
for all the screens of
your life. That sounds like
marketing all the screens of
your life. And you guys
give us hassle for, I'm
not terribly happy with it,
but it is actually accurate.
It is a rich internet
application platform, meaning it's a
set of tools, API APIs,
and a new language that
Are for building rich internet
apps, meaning programs that run
inside your web browser and
on the desktop. Okay. A
new language. I heard that
I'm going to come back
to that. I don't really
like the term RIA because
you know, rich internet application
who wants an application that
isn't rich, who was a
poor app and all apps
have to do with the
internet. Now, even if it's
purely for installation, all apps
are coming from the internet
or connected to the internet,
doing something interesting with the
internet. So really it's just
applications as a platform for
building applications. This is all
client side. This is not
stuff that you run on
your server. This is what
actually runs on your desktop
computer or your cell phone.net
Developers that are listening to
us to put this into
context because I going to
kind of put things in
a dotnet context for those
people who are done at
programmers. This isn't J two
EE. There's no beans involved
in this Java. This is
your client's side story, I
guess is the way to
put it. Okay. So you
said there's a new language.
Java is a language I'm
familiar with and Java and
C sharp look a lot
alike. And then Java effects
is a language too. So
Java effects is the platform
and it has its own
language called Java effects, script
Java, FX script. It's a
language designed to be familiar
to people who are pure
programmers, Java, and C sharp
developers and people who are
what we sort of call
the web to Dido hipsters.
The people who know some
JavaScript and maybe a little
bit of PHP or Ruby,
but they do a lot
of work in Dreamweaver, a
lot of work in flash
and Photoshop illustrator, and the
people who are very visually
oriented into some scripting. We
wanted something that would be
familiar to them at the
same time. Our focus is
gooeys. So there are features
in the language specifically for
building user interfaces. Binding is
built in time is an
actual data type because it's
important to animation. Animation is
built in. Oh, really? So
you're saying that there are
things in the language that
are built into solve the
problems Of user interface builder,
right? You would never use
this to make a backend
application. It doesn't, You would
never make a Java effects
thing that had no UI.
Right. Okay. It's whole purpose
is user interfaces. Okay. All
of that said it is
built on top of the
Java platform at the end
of the day, all this
stuff compiles down to Java
byte code it's in a
jar file, right? The jar
files like a zip file
or a cab or a
what we would call a
zap. It's a zip file
with a different extension. Okay.
Okay. And it runs on
the Java virtual machine, the
JVM. Okay. So you don't
actually need a new plugin
for your web browser. It
uses the regular Java applet
plugin. And on the desktop,
it uses Java web start,
which is similar to a
Adobe air. And I think
Microsoft has the, Yeah. Okay.
So Java web start is
the thing that makes it
jump out of the browser.
Yes. Okay. Java FX, the
platform and Java FX script
is the language, the language.
Okay. But it's not Java
script. It has no relation
to Java script. There's no
relation to JavaScript other than
it should be familiar to
people who program in JavaScript,
they should be able to
pick it up pretty easy.
So if it's familiar, that
probably means it uses curly
braces. It uses a lot
of curly braces. Yes. Now
we have a language in
Silverlight called XAML that uses
a lot of angle brackets
or your curly braces, like
our angle brackets. In many
ways, we use a lot
of curly braces and the
declarative parts of your code.
So you can have, you
can create much like you
would an XML or HTML,
a tree like structure describing
your user interface. And then
you start attaching event handlers
and data to that Visual
structure. So for a first
for scoping and for parenting,
for describing that this is
a parent of that for
making hierarchies. Yes. Okay. And
when we, so let me
see who the players here,
we've got this flash and
then I guess it's flex,
what's flashing Flash flux. So
flex is basically the Jesus
action script, which is related
to Java script. It's essentially
a way for programmers to
code things that compile down
to flash files. So you
can make a user interface
that talks to the network
and becomes a flash file
that will play in the
flash player. Okay. So flash
has a kind of a
virtual machine of sorts, a
language and a UI thing.
So they have a VM
in a box that's flash
runtime air is the thing
that they have that jumps
out of the browser. Right?
Then we have, we have
server Lite, which has star.net,
the, you know, the CLR
and then Silverlight three can
jump out of the browser.
Right. And then Java effects
can live in the browser
as a, as a, an
applet or a square active
area. And it can also
jump out yes. As well.
So there is, if I
missed anybody pretty much. It's
the big three. Yeah. Well
actually I have missed somebody
Java script itself. True. Which
may or may arguably be
our greatest competition. We should
be friends and we should
crush JavaScript. We should, that's
going to be hard though.
More people use JavaScript than
any other language. And of
all the, when you install
a browser, I mean, that's
the thing that you, that's
the thing you have, that's
the, it comes out of
the box. You have JavaScript,
which is getting faster and
HTML five will let you
watch movies in a movie.
Was it called it media?
I forget the name of
the tag video tag. Yeah.
So that there's four of
us. Yeah. It sounds like
Google owns jobs. Right. I
dunno if they completely own
it, but they No, no,
no one owns JavaScript. But
if you could say, well,
what's, Google's, it's probably JavaScript.
Absolutely. It is. They are.
And they are driving a
lot of the development and
next generation JavaScript technology they're
I mean, they're making their
own web. Yeah, absolutely. But
I think it's bigger than
making them a web browser
because they're making a, that,
you know, they don't use
Silverlight, they don't use flash
and they don't use a
Java. Right. So they've made,
they've made their decision about
what their runtime is. Now.
One of the in Silverlight
we have a thing, we
have this thing called the
JavaScript bridge, which means that
Silverlight can reach out into
the Dom and kind of
deal with it and vice
versa. Can you do some
other things in Java? In
fact, one of the, so
Java was the original plugin
and it was the very
first plugin that would let
you make programs that ran
in the browser. Right. And
that was a big story
up until about 97, 98,
and then Java on the
clients, hard to fade away
and Java on the server
became the thing that most
job developers work with. A
lot of that has to
do is partly because of
the UI toolkit, but a
lot of it had to
do with the actual applet
plugin. So horrible. It was
built on Netscape, two era
API APIs. It, it never
worked the same in different
browsers. It could crash your
browser or lock it up.
It wasn't Java's the languages
fault as it was that
this, this plugin lived. It
lived way too long. So
a guy at sun who
actually works on the joggle
project, which is open GL
by the Java open GL.
Okay. I love that. I
think it's great. I'm sorry.
I have to interrupt because
I think it's great that
when I feel bad about
our names, I realize that
everybody not just sun are
right. Everybody has these crazy.
Why did we call it?
You know, I sure is
our cloud, you know, I
have to juggle. Yep. You
win on that one. That's
awesome. Classic engineering, marketing. It's
great name though. I love
it. So joggle opened GL
bindings. He really cared about
making three D games and
visualizations, and he wants to
share that with the world.
So it needs to go
on a web browser, right?
And this is what he
discovered just how truly bad
or applet plugin was. And
he joined the deployment team
to rewrite the applet plugin
and he did it. He
completely rewrote it from scratch
through way, all of the
code Java web start, which
is an XML file that
downloads a bunch of resources
and runs it. And applets,
which were HTML, the downloads
a bunch of resources and
runs it, right. They used
to be two entirely separate
things, even when they were
using, they're doing basically the
same thing, right? So he
combined the two together, completely
rewrite it from scratch, using
modern browser API APIs. It
does require a recent browser.
You have to have
or Firefox three or higher
Because these are this, this
is, we're talking about the,
I think it's the NS
API. Yes. Plugin. I mean,
this is, if you're going
to write a plugin, there's
a number of ways you
can do it. And they're
not all active acts. There's
this notion of the Netscape
API APIs that are historical.
Right. And then this NSA
API, there are some weird
things about where each browser
runs it. What threads are
involved. If the, one of
the things that people complain
about is that, you know,
Oh, well I E crashes
a lot. Well, it might
not be it it's in
fact plugins that are ill
behaved. Right? So even the
best plugin developer still has
to be aware that I'm
running on opera or I'm
running on IAE and do
some little kind of things
to make it work Well.
Right. And so the, the
old app plugin had just
been writing that, that line
for way too long. Okay.
So the new one completely
rewritten, unifies, everything uses modern
API APIs, and it'll actually
run Java itself in a
separate process. So you can
actually kill dash nine, the
Java process for applet. It
won't take down the browser.
Is this regardless of the
browser, if you, if we're
using the new plugin, meaning
97 or Firefox three. Yeah.
Interesting. And I wonder if
you're using  or Chrome,
which runs plugins in a
separate process. If it'll run
another process on top of
it, I'm not sure. I
know it works in Chrome,
but there might be an
extra bounce, bounce, bounce, right?
Well, essentially the plugin use,
it has a very slim
JVM, which monitors all of
the others. And so it's
kind of a little manager,
which lets us do things
like if you have an
applet that really needs a
bunch more memory, you need
to set some JVM arguments.
It can do that. Force
it to be in its
own JVs. You could have
a page that had a
half dozen Java applets yes.
And they'll all have their
own process. If you choose
by default, I will try
to share it. Oh. So
you can give the, you
can give your host a
hint. Yes. Oh, okay. And
it will try and do
the right thing. Okay. And
our goal was to make
sure that it was impossible
for Java to ever crash
your browser. As a side
benefit, it loads up faster.
And we can do some
interesting tricks. Like if you
write your applet in a
certain way, and this is
true for Java applets and
Java effects, you can literally
drag the running program out
of your web browser. And
it still continues to run,
navigate away or close your
web browser. The app is
still running. Then when you
close it, it asks you
if you want to create
a shortcut on your desktop.
Oh, that's cool. Now this
is a new thing. Yeah.
This we showed probably if
you have, it came on
Java six, update 10, which
was released in October. Right.
Okay. Okay. So let me
ask you this. I don't
get the naming now. I
know we, we, we kind
of have some funny names
to share these silver lights
only on three. Although I
told the Silverlight guys to
just call it silver light
11. So then we would
just skip over flash completely.
Excellent. And just then call
it 13. Just pick random
numbers that are like, maybe
go primes, just go and
say three, five, seven. And
how'd that go over? And
that didn't like that idea,
but at least they're not
calling it like, you know,
Silverlight 3.5 service pack, two
CTP. But you guys, I
remember there was Java three
or what was it in
1999? What was I programming
in 99? Well, there is,
there is Java one Java
1.1. And then we jumped
to Java two. Yeah. Okay.
That was the confusing, Because
the version number was still
Java. 1.2, we call that
job. I remember those days.
Okay. I was on Java
1.1 and then RMI. I
was running Java one, one
like RMI edition, which was
like a daily build at
one, one. And then two
happened, which was 1.2 included
RMI. And then I left.
Right. So fast forward, 10
years we're on Java six.
Yes. Java seven is still
currently under development. Now one
of the rules of the
Java community process, w when
you say Java, you're really
talking about a specification. It's
the language and API APIs.
Okay. Then we have our
implementation of it, which is
what most people think of
when they download Java. But
there are other, other implementations.
Do you know how to
make the possible out of
the impossible? Well, the dotnet
ninjas at Telerik do they
just released a huge pack
of web controls, all built
on top of done at
Ajax. That'll help you build
impossibly fast and interactive applications
in no time at all.
They've made the impossible possible
in desktop development. If you
think you can't have a
carousel component and wind forms
while you can, their windows
form suite features a super
powerful grid view control on
32 other crazy desktop components
that will give you a
dazzling WPF like features, but
in wind forms, they do
the same thing in reporting
solutions with a new design
surface, like nothing else looks
just like graph paper gives
you advanced page layout capabilities
makes it feel more like
a graphic design software than
a reporting solution. Go check
them out@telerik.com and be at
dotnet Ninja. And thanks for
listening. Okay. So they put
this in the context of
the Microsoft person that may
be listening. We have this
thing called the CLI the
common language implementation, I think,
is what it's called. And
it's like our definition of
what a CLR implementation should
look like, which is different
from the instance. Right. But
these things merge a lot,
right? Like we have this
motto, which is an instance
of the CLI and open
source implementation. Yeah. Okay. So
when I say Java, I'm
thinking like the version I
just installed. Right. But there's
an, there's a, There's this
kind of abstract spec. And
one of the rules is
that we can't change any
public API between major versions.
So Java six actually came
out end of 2000. Let's
see when I joined. So
end of 2006, I believe
Java six came out Java
seven will come out next
spring, probably. Okay. So that's
a four year gap. In
the meantime, we've done many
update releases, which actually provide
a lot of crucial functionality,
but we haven't added any
new API APIs. Okay. So
you're only allowed to add
an API In a major
major, and it has to
go through all of this
approval and all this stuff.
Most of what we wanted
to fix actually didn't require
new API APIs. It was
purely implementation improvements. And so
that's what, all of the
updates. Okay. So we're on
update. Third, 10 update 10.
Well, no 10 came out
October. I think the last
public is update 12 or
13 and 14 will be
coming out. So I've always
felt that both of us,
I mean, me speaking for
Microsoft and use beacon for
sun should keep, have developers
should have one version number
and my mom should have
another. Right. You know, For
most people it's Java six.
Oh, okay. Realistic. For most
people it's Java or that
copycat thing, they don't even
really understand. But like I
tried to install, I installed
new Boone too yesterday and
I got the 64 bit
version, which I thought was
a good idea. Wasn't a
good idea. Because then I
wanted to get Java working,
but I needed Java six
update, 14 preview or something
like that. Right. Because 14
won't come out for another
month or two. Right. But
they're on, we're on 10
now. Well, 12 came out
in this. Yeah. So you
have trouble keeping this stuff
straight and as much as
I do, so I don't
feel bad. This is good.
Cause we all, we all,
all of us, all of
our companies screw this stuff
up. So 14. Yeah. I
didn't understand that. That was
just like, it's like Java
6.14 Essentially. Yeah. Is what
it was. We now call
it, update something, but you
can think of it as,
okay. So what's a difference
between like, you know, 10
and 14, like we released
these things called, I think
we call them GTRs general
distribution releases for Silverlight. So
like every couple of months
your Silverlight implementation will just
magically get updated. Right. Just
like flash does the same
thing. We don't say, we
don't tell you if it's
something that's minor, we're just
fixing some bugs. Right. And
everything we've done is bug
fixes. Now what we typically
do is alternate releases, where
if you go to request
a download or you get
the most recent version, and
then there's the version that
we turn on and the
auto update auto update, it's
usually a point release behind
that way. We've had a
chance to test it even
more, you know, so lots
of developers have tested it,
but we haven't actually pushed
it out to the entire
world. Oh, that's cool. Okay.
So then I might've downloaded
a 10 cause that's the
one that's on the website.
Right. But people have been
auto updating to nine to
see if 10 has problems.
I think 10 is now
an auto update. Probably 12
is what you could download.
Correct. Okay. That's cool. So
it's kind of a way
of keeping things conservative, but
you're not adding major functionality,
right? Until Java seven, Till
Java seven Java, seven Ohio,
the actual new API APIs
and lots of others Now,
which one do I need
to run? Java FX six,
Actually six updates. Seven or
above. Okay. That's your baseline?
That's our baseline. I highly
recommend six, 10 or above
just because that's where you
get the new Apple plugin
and the experience of running
applets in a web browser
is so much better. Really?
It's not even worth. Yeah.
I bump into applets when
I'm looking at my, my
nanny cam, my kid has
a camera and it has
a Java applet. Right. So
sometimes in the old days
when I would hit a
Java applet, I knew I
was about to hit it.
Cause the browser would freeze.
Right. That would be before
your, before Java guy fixed
it. Yeah. Right. Or Ken
did the magic. So Then
if you have a job
athlete that you come into
contact with, you want to
update. Absolutely. And then that
will make the, that applicant,
even all that let's work
still. Yeah. It runs all
the old, we take backwards
compatibility very seriously, which is
why it actually took so
long. It took over a
year to completely rewrite. The
plugin think would be a
small thing, but compatibility. So,
So Java effects lets me
write UIs. I assume it
lets me do video and
the kind of things like
that. Yes. In addition to
the language, we have a
new runtime with new APIs.
Okay. So the new APIs
have a scene graph rather
than drawing lines. Scene graph
S C E N E.
Yes. Okay. So rather than
saying the old Java way
of doing things is you've
given a graphics context and
you say, draw a line,
right? That color, draw this
other line. Second color windows
3.1. Now you say here's
a rectangle. Here's where it
should be on the screen.
I don't care how it
gets painted. If the screen
needs to be refreshed, I
don't want to be called
back every time that has
to be repainted. Here's an
object representing the rectangle, make
it happen. If I move
the rectangle, changing its X
value, then the screen should
get updated again. And I
don't care how it happens.
That's what I've seen graph
gives. Okay. So that's interesting
because that's a similar philosophy
moving from like on the,
on the client, from what
we call wind forms to
WPF, right. Or from yeah.
Or moving to moving into
Silverlight. Cause XAML says here's
an object and there's no
notion of like the WM
paint event. Now there is
like Underneath the shirt, you
don't have to deal with
it. You think that, do
you think that you and
I, but again, when I
say you and I, I
mean you represent all employees
of sun and of course,
and, and represent, but don't
speak for all employees at
Microsoft. Do you think that
we are, are like in
this massive thumb, more from
a computer science perspective or
is this like, like, you
know, we came up with
this idea first and you
come up with that or
is this just the only
direction it could have gone?
So it's interesting. It's interesting.
You brought this up. I
actually gave a presentation to
some university of Oregon students
here about graphics, history, like
development of API, because they
had just started learning about
seeing graphs. So they wanted
me to kind of give
it a retrospective. And actually
I sat down and did
some research, you know, read
through my old graphics books.
I really think this is
just a logical way. It's
going to go. When you
work at a higher level,
you do take a performance
hit, right? But it makes,
it makes you so much
more productive. And that eventually
the tools and implementation get
to be so good that
they can actually do a
better job than if I
were to implement it myself.
It's the same thing that
happened with compilers. I don't
write an assembly because I
can write in C and
the competitor's actually good enough
that in 99% of the
cases they'll do a better
job that if I was
to write in assembly, plus
I can write 10 times
more code in the same
amount of time. Then we
moved up another level to
languages like and C sharp,
where we don't have to
manage objects, manage the memory
anymore. All of that is
handled for us. And 99%
of the time, the automated
systems do a better job
because now we've had 10,
15 years of improvement. I
think the same graphs are
the same thing. Even JavaScript
is basically the same graph
is the Dawn is this
big tree structure make a
change. And then the browser
figures out how to redraw
it on screen. Yeah. Cause
like you would bump into
problems when you would do
something in graphics and then
you'd go and you'd learn
how double buffering worked. Right.
And then you think to
yourself, gosh, I'm writing a
checkbook application. Why do I
have to know, why do
I care about double buffering?
And the same thing happens
in 3d now where it's
like, you know, just let
the, let the remember the
what's it called? The voodoo.
Oh yeah. Tons of low
level custom coding to squeak
out every bit of it.
Yeah. And now it's just
like, you'd write to direct
X and or open GL
and it just, it works
itself out. Yep. Yeah. Yeah.
And I expect, because I
know not as much about
direct X, but open JLL
is very much a draw
level. Like here draw a
line, draw a polygon, right.
Vertex. Isn't just to handle
it yet. And more and
more people are programming to
things built on top of
open GL where it's 3d
scene graph. Basically. No, that's
a really good way to
put it. Cause they are
doing that. They're saying here's
an actor and that actor
is moving over here. And
then they'll say, well, here's
from a physics engine, right.
Here's who's doing my ragdoll
physics. Now, do you guys
talk to the hardware too?
We just it's over like
three has 3d accelerated. Yeah.
So we just started adding
hardware acceleration. We will use
open GL and director of
three D one available, but
we have software fallbacks for
everything. Right. We also have
pixel level effects, which under
the hood turn into pixel
shaders. So like blur and
drop shadow a hue, rescale,
that kind of stuff. It's
amazing that we are even
talking about like a browser
plugin that cares about pixel
shaders. I'm not even a
hundred percent sure what a
pixel shader is. I mean,
it's either one color or
it's not Well from a
technical perspective, they're interesting for
lots of sorts of reasons.
But from an application developer
point of view, it just
means you're making your user's
graphics card. Do all the
heavy lifting. The more you
can shove up to the
graphics card, the better, right?
Because the graphics card is
optimized for pushing out pixels
really fast. So I could
do a blur operation in
software, or I could do
it in the GPU. The
GPU will be 10 times
faster. It's kind of sad
because I feel bad for
all those Java applet developer
guys from like 10 years
ago that would take, remember
they'd have the here's a
picture. And then right below
it would be the water.
And I was like, Oh
dude, he wrote, that's amazing.
I've never seen anything like
that. And now it's like
an attribute yeah. On an
object. Just make it ripple.
Yup. And then like Apple
has made an entire business
out of the upside down
blurry, shiny desk. This century
is a Drop shadow, I
think. Or the paint. No.
Remember that they used to
put Paige curls on everything.
Oh yeah. I actually was
looking at a magazine that
someone gets, someone sent me
a link to a magazine.
I don't know. I think
it was in flash. And
it was like one of
these Zinio type things where
you can read the magazine
and flash. Oh, right, right.
It had no hot keys.
And you had to not
only just grab you, I
thought you just click the
page, curl every single page,
turn required. You grabbing the
page and dragging it across
the full length of a
1200, 1280 that's progress. And
I was like, okay, well
the first time that was
so fun. But when I
was on like page 80,
I'm no longer interested in
turning the page. I don't
care how interesting your magazine
is. It was almost like
the guy was just really
so excited about his page
curl effect. He had to
find a way to use
it. So I don't see
a lot of Java effects
when I'm kind of bumping
around the net That that's
just because it's very new
Java , which is still
pretty limited shipped in December.
Okay. Oh, isn't it. Wow.
There's like a couple months
old now. Yeah. It seemed
like Java effects is not
Java web start. Java web
start has been part of
core Java since 2003. Okay.
Okay. Cause see, that's a
long time ago and I
was thinking that this was
five-year-old Well, Java effects. We
announced it in Oh seven.
We had something real to
show on stage and Oh
eight. Okay. Preview was last
summer and the one Oh
was December. Then we did
a one, one release, which
was really the mobile targeted
thing, which is the other
major feature of Java effects.
The language for gooeys. Really
good runtime. That does stuff
for you. Right? The major,
the other major feature is
that the exact same code
can run on Java, Emmy
cell phones, Java enabled phones.
Okay. So this is when
you get back to what
we were teasing each other
about screens, all the screens
of your life, the television
screen. And there will eventually
be Java X for TV.
And I think we're going
to show stuff at Java,
one Java VM in my
television, sir, Or something attached
to your toes. Yeah. I
don't know the details, but
it has always been part
of our plan that, you
know, traditionally Java Amie, Java
for cell phones, Java se
which standard edition Java for
desktops. Okay. While they both
use the Java language, the
API has been very different.
And if you were a
Java desktop developer, you had
to learn lots of new
things to be mobile developer
and vice versa. Java X
gets rid of that. It
is one platform. There is
no Java FX, mobile. There's
just Java FX. Oh, okay.
And we ha we have
demos where it's like a
little Yahoo search application. I
can run it in a
web browser from within that
beans are IDE. Right. I
can flip a switch and
say target mobile. Okay. Run.
It will pop up in
the mobile ambulator at the
exact same program code changes
whatsoever. And did the person
really only had to be
aware of the screen thing,
the size of the screen,
right. If right. We have
Things called profiles. Most API
APIs are in the common
profile. If you stick with
a common profile, it will
literally work everywhere. Just all
you have to care about
is screen resizing. Right? Yeah.
I had a, a demo
I gave at our, our,
our conference called PDC professional
developers conference where I took
a server Silverlight to application
and put it on server
light two for mobile. Right,
right. Same kind of thing.
But the, the screen size,
but it was like the
difference between 1280. Right, right.
Versus I don't think it
was like three 20 by
two 40, The cell phone
screens are starting to get
pretty high Rez. I have
a demo phone from demo
to Sony Experia I think
X one really, it has
an 800 by 400 pixel
screen. You know, someone was
talking that there there's word
of an iPad could be,
which would be like large
iPod touch or a small
Newton. The email. Exactly. It's
a message pad 2000, because
it's like, and suddenly I
just had this whole kind
of John Luke Picard thing
where I would be walking
around my kitchen with this
similarly sized as a, as
an iPhone, as far as
thickness, but maybe like nine
inches, I guess I would
run it. Like not a
netbook, you know how Apple
has been. So they've been
bashing on the Netflix, Netflix
lousy experience, you know, they're
going to release them that
course, but they're not going
to call it a netbook.
They're going to call it
the iPad or whatever, because
it's just going to be
the screen part of the
netbook. Right. And that makes
them like, we're awesome. Look,
no keyboard. But like, I
mean, we're sitting here and
I'm using my, my Dell
mini nine. I'm trying to
I'm, I'm covering one eye
and then I'm using my
hand to cover the keyboard.
And it's like, okay, I
could see that being useful
if I could carry on
a tablet, which is as
a Microsoft guy. And I'm
only been a Microsoft guy
for a year, but, but
I have to RA for
the company. Sometimes it's like,
man, tablet, PCs were a
good idea, except they were
seven pounds. Right. And they
folded, you know, they folded.
Yeah. And a flash hard
drive was $5,000. Exactly. That's
someone else will do it
though. We won't get, we
won't get the credit. Yeah.
Okay. I'm better. Not really.
So Java developers do their
work in eclipse or Java
what's what do you guys
Job IDs? The main two
are eclipse and net beans,
which is the one that
sun makes they're both open
source beans. That's okay. That's
the, that's not Java beans,
which is a different thing.
Yeah. Jonathan means it's just
a spec for objects that
you can incorporate. You told
me, I apologize. It's been
a long time. Sure. Netted
beans. Well Debbie's was originally
built on Java beans, which
is why the, because of
the name, which cause it's
not a logical thing to
have in the name of
your ID. So netted beans
is our IDE. We ship
Java X comes with a
plugin for net beans that
does code completion and has
a very nice preview mode
where you can actually see
the graphics that you're composing
on. Every time you change
a letter, it will recompile
it Like split screen. You
have your Java FX code
and then you've got your
preview. Right. And so you
can say, you know, what
I love about Java effects
is it makes coding really
fun. You know, I, there
are things that I wouldn't
have done in swinging because
it would just take too
long and I get bored.
So what's the effects. So
swing was the old user
interface tool. Okay. So I
used the HWT. Right. Which
had like buttons and stack
panels. Right, Right. Swing was
a more advanced version of
that. But it was still
built for the desktop of
like windows 95 Wasn't swing
was the one where it
had themes, but none of
them looked like the OSU
were running. Right. And they
were all horribly ugly. Cause
then Him in the green.
Yeah. Okay. So then, okay.
So swing AWD actually looked
pretty good. It was hard.
We actually use native. Right.
It looked like, like a
Mac or it looked like,
Right. But that also caused
problems because your code would
behave differently in different platforms.
When we had that problem
at Nike, we had to
go and say, if on
Mac, do this right. Swing
was created to solve that
The owner drove everywhere. Right.
Okay. So, well they weren't
real buttons. They were a
picture of a button. Yes.
It was all done in
pure Java code. Okay. And
it, it worked reasonably well,
but there are limitations to
swing. I wrote a book
called swing hacks, which was
500 pages of pushing swing
to its limits. I know
how far it can go.
And it was built for
the era of windows 95.
It was built for the
era of most things aren't
shaped. We don't have very
much translucency. Certainly don't have
shaped windows. It's not common
that you're going to have
your, your user interface controls
actually slide across the screen.
So doing those things are
very difficult. Lots of custom
code or simply impossible because
the underlying platform can't support
it right now. It's the
21st century. We have compositing
window managers. We have shaped
windows. We have fast graphics
cards. We can have gradients,
we can move things across
space and time, but the
UI tool kit just wasn't
up for it. Right. Okay.
So that's where Java FX
comes in. This is our
chance to reinvent desktop Java,
client side, Java learning the
lessons of the last 15
years, but taking advantage of
modern techniques. So putting this
into the context of the
vocabulary, rather of the dinette
guy. So like when forms,
you just kind of like,
you know, native, native controls,
a buttons, a button, and
then WPF is our kind
of reinvention of desktop. Exactly.
Windows using modern technology. And
it can still look like
a normal application. I mean
sometimes when people demo these
kinds of things, they go
completely over the top. Right.
But the, all the page
girls on it. Yeah. Yeah.
Here's, here's a line of
business application with this page.
Corolla it's own flip it
over transparent green buttons. Right.
You can probably do those
things in Java effects too.
Right. You can, but where
you can be more kind
of buttoned down, right. And
look like an actual line
of business application. Exactly. And
take advantage of greater speed.
The fact that runs the
same everywhere, all of the
implementation fixes we put in
and because Java effects, like
I said, it was built
for gooeys binding. The language
means you can do things
like I have a business
object, which represents like a
person, you know, and it
has a name field on
it and a address field.
I can create a gooey
and literally bind the two
together in code where I
just say address field dot
text equals bind a person
object.name. And then the underlying
system makes it happen. That's
so crazy. Cause we have
a similar thing we have
binding in XAML did you,
do you look at our
stuff? I started to look
at it because I met
some of the Silverlight of
Angeles at aura dev last
year in Sweden. Yeah. And
it, there are some differences
between our platforms, but there's
a lot of similarities I
think, because we're all trying
to solve the same problem.
Yeah. Does it make you
wonder if our bosses, like
the people who come up
with this stuff are like
in, in like, I don't
know, talking to each other
or do you, I mean,
we don't, we asked a
little bit about this question
earlier, but I mean, could
it really be just that
this is the only direction
that our simple minds can
go and then we're all
going there at the same
time. Cause I suspect if
we had a flash guy
on the show that they
would, the same things happen.
Yeah. Flex does a lot
of the same things it's
because we're trying to solve
the same problem. Yeah. And
this is the only way
though. I mean just because
we all have the same
problem doesn't mean that we
would all come up with
the same similar data binding.
We have our own little
twists on it. I'm sure
our binding is different than
yours. We use CSS for
skinning. We have some plugins
for Photoshop and illustrator that
are different than the, the
expression design suite. But if
you take a look at
it from a high level,
strip off all the brand
names, technology details, we're trying
to solve the same problem,
Looking back 20 years. And
they look at this, they're
going to say, yeah, well,
you know, humans were heading
in this direction as opposed
to these four or three.
I don't know. I'm wondering,
I'm wondering more and more
if we need to be
more worried about JavaScript and
HTML five than fighting, Putting
a lot of money. I
wonder if of the four
of us, of Adobe, Microsoft,
sun and Google. If, if,
if it's who's the most
evil, right. We all know
what the knee jerk reaction
is. Right. I'm starting to
wonder if that's not the
case. I don't know. I
gotta get a Google guy
on the show and ask
him what the math Yeah.
Ask him about GWT WT,
lets you write Java code
on your server. That essentially
is compiled into JavaScript where
they're literally using JavaScript purely
as their virtual machine. Oh
wow. Someone's here that I
need gene we're in Eugene.
Someone is someone is smoking
and it's being picked up
and they've burned something down
and they've burned something down.
GW has Google windowing, toolkit,
Google web toolkit, web toolkit.
Right. Essentially you write Java
code, which has compiled on
your server. Right. And then
it actually produces These gigantic
blobs of JavaScript that you
would never. So JavaScript would
be, are your byte code?
My I L yes, they
are essentially using JavaScript as
by code. Interesting. That's why
it's in their interest for
JavaScript interpreters to be faster.
You know, one of the
things that never one little
company that never really got
its its thing, it never
really happened was called open
Laszlo. Oh yeah. Those guys.
So open Laszlo had this
thing where you would write
in angle brackets and XML
the description of a, of
a, of a window and
you'd do it in the
open Laszlo language. And it
would compile to either JavaScript,
DHT, mill or flash. And
they were always talking about
maybe doing it into Silverlight,
but I think they faded
away. I don't know what
the status of them is,
but it was a similar
kind of an idea where
like, let's make a language
that is totally implementation nonspecific.
Right. And then we'll use
everyone else's runtime. So as
long as everyone's locked into
us, they can push us
meaning open Laszlo. Right. Then
we can push a button
and they can choose what
they want to be locked
into. Right. Or JavaScript, which
may or may not be
the illusion of being not
locked into anyone. I guess
that is definitely being, you
may not be controlled. That's
definitely driven by a very
small, yeah. Interesting. I don't
know which way direction it's
going to go. It'll be
fun to listen to this
in five years and see.
Yeah. Cool. Well Josh, thanks
a lot for sitting down
with me today. I really
appreciate you taking the time.
Alright. Well this has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.